---
title: Trapped
date: 2019-11-10
categories:
  - blog
featuredImage: images/trapped.jpg
---

A very popular adage goes something like this, “a mind that is stretched by a new experience can never go back to its old dimensions”. Every new experience adds a new page to our story, thus transforming us in the process. Our experiences mould our perception of the world around us. They shower us with a plenitude of learning opportunities as well. This explains why we, as humans are always on the lookout for something new to try. When we take our first step into college life, we wish to emerge as a transformed version of ourselves, someone who is a pro at everything. Academics, though of prime importance, cannot help us shape our goals of personal development. So, for those of us out here who wish to sharpen the arrows of the skills in our quiver, the war field that is “The MANIT Savannah” offers us best opportunity in the name of societies. Society culture is an integral part of the student life in MANIT. We all associate with various societies, basking in the desire to showcase our talents and to develop a certain skill set which we believe is essential in granting a sound structure to our CVs. But is this revered system worth all the hype? Let’s find out.

PROBLEMS It is hardly doubtful that societies do help an individual in developing interpersonal skills and in inculcating much-needed life skills, but their success rate in imparting knowledge in the arena that they profess to make you excel in, is dwindling since their inception. If we take the case of a literary society, then we might see that their primary objective is to improve the language skills of the students, right? But at the end of the day, is that what really happens? The same question can be promptly risen in the case of a technical society. A major flaw in the system lies deeply embedded in the rigorous recruitment procedure of the societies. The first few weeks of sophomore year are spent by students in giving entrance exams, and then hoping dearly that they make the cut and get a call for the interviews. And once that is over, the phase of praying for getting selected begins. The mad rush to finally make it onto a society borders on fanaticism. Every individual wants a place for themselves in one of these seemingly prestigious bodies. In all of that, finally making it into a society is no less than an honour. If only we do away with the mad rush we might be able to see the bigger picture, and it’s not as beautiful as it appears to be. While on the one hand, societies boast about their abilities to imbibe a certain set of skills in an individual, on the other hand, they recruit only those who are equipped with that skill set. For example, a society which aims to promote and improve language skills tend to recruit individuals with a great command over the language. Pretty strange isn’t it? If we think about it, it is hardly a Herculean task to teach someone something that they already know. If you were lucky enough to survive the gruesome recruitment procedure, CONGRATULATIONS, you have been successful in your attempts at making a place for yourselves in one of the prestigious societies in the college. But it isn’t long before the happiness fades away and reality kicks in, bringing with itself the realisation that it is not all fun and games (more like organising them). The amount of dedication expected from an individual is almost maddening. It is not long before skipping classes and pulling all-nighters to finish the work for an upcoming event becomes a staple. The expectations of utmost devotion for the society and its events keep piling up as the dates start closing in, and burden is so overwhelming that it is a miracle when students emerge unscathed at the end of the event (mostly they crash because of exhaustion). The trouble is manifold if a person has been bold enough to brave taking part in more than one society. With all the work that is expected of the student, academics take a back seat. On top of it, back to back events ensure that the student is constantly flooded with work with barely enough time to breathe. All this was about the people who make it into one of the societies, but what about the people who didn’t get into any? The honour that getting into a society is, these individuals are mostly looked down upon. A judgement on the part of someone who holds a decisive position in a society is all that stops them from doing what interests them.

WHAT TO DO ABOUT IT? The society culture is good in its place but it is time that we realise that these structures need to be more inclusive. Anybody who is genuinely interested in something must be given an equal opportunity to pursue it, irrespective of whether they are thought to be deserving or not. Also, organisation of events, though important, must not side-line the true purpose of the commencement of the society. Parting ways from the traditional methods, we can try to pave the way for some new trends. Societies organise group discussions for their members so that everyone come together, share their opinions, and learn from each other in the process. Those members who are well informed about a certain topic can step up and take the responsibility for teaching others about it. This way the students will be able to learn a whole lot more. It is the need of the hour that we employ our creativity to come up with methods to make sure that our system of societies is able to realise its full potential in transforming students.

..............
