---
title: "Dear Former Self"
date: 2017-06-28
categories:
  - "eb-throwback"
---

\[gallery ids="446,447" type="square" columns="2"\]

> _Article published in Excelsior 2016_

Writing letters to your past self; telling him to do certain things right and not to do some things at all, which obviously he can’t because he has become you and you never thought of doing them when you were him, is sardonic. And so, there’s no point of it at all. But this is where they drop ‘it’s never too late’ into your conscience. And that makes it all worth it.

So, in that spirit, the following are a few letters a MANITian would write to his past self at different points in his life-

_Dear too-schoolaholic-to-be-far-sighted-me,_ You are going to be in an engineering institute. Yes, an NIT. Isn’t that great? Well, some memes may say it is not, but it is. It would be the third form you fill out in the series of ten that would hit a home run. So, don’t get caught puncturing the tyres of your teachers’ cars at the coaching institute because you have decided to quit. Do not quit preparing, not yet. Do it when it is ten hours to your JEE exam and sleep. Otherwise, optical illusion will come into action straight out of your Physics textbook and you may even confuse sections, courtesy those offensively symmetrical ovals. Do not let PCM hold you back, the joys of PMC are unparalleled, or so I hear. _Love, The-bubbling-with-enthusiasm-first-year-you_ _Dear feeling-cheated-first-year-me,_ Do not take the roads less travelled (by the first years). Remember, ‘United we stand (safe), divided we fall (prey)’. But security shouldn’t be the first thought to pop in your head before doing the things you want to do. That goes for the rest of your life too. Go out, participate, explore. Be bold but not audacious. Life has meaner ways to teach you that. Do not bemoan not getting into an IIT. It will debilitate your launchpad into the glorious years in MANIT. And then, there always is lateral entry to some colleges and a second shot at IIT. But that only when you fail to iron out your disharmony over admission in MANIT, which hopefully you wouldn’t. There is not much to study. Pointers come as easy as it is difficult to abstain from the charms of at least one GT per semester. So, enjoy. I know you feel a little cheated and that it’s not that great. And those memes, too, were not totally wrong. But hang on. The way some things in the world work is incomprehensible and the reason for it is inexplicable. But everything will amass into serendipity at the culmination of it, or so I have been told. Until then, button up. _Love, The-learned-second-year-you_

_Dear uneducated-second-year-me,_ Do not misuse your newly found freedom. Your body (soul) compass should manoeuvre you between your hostel and the college more than between Susangat and Machan. This will probably be the year when you will buy a laptop and will soon realise what it is that you are going to spend most of your time in MANIT on, owing to the high speed LAN. Do not get totally wasted partying. Pointers aren’t as easy to score as you think. So you better study hard and remember you joined this institute to be an engineer after all. Nothing, within the powers of a mortal, can be done to make the mess food more palatable. This will only make you realise that you don’t live to eat but eat to live, for good. Or simply, that you are achingly hungry, for better. And eventually you will realise you are paying as much money to Sagar Gaire or Sharma Chinese as you have paid as the mess fee. But remember, the way some things in the world work is incomprehensible and the reason for it is inexplicable. But everything will amass into serendipity at the culmination of it, or so I have been told. _Love, The-Finally-a-third-year-you_ _Dear wait-what-third-year!-me,_ You may think that you have done immense hard work by now. But it isn’t over yet as you may think of going for demos in several coaching centres, and then you may join one too. But, don’t be afraid to take the roads less travelled by the third years (but not while on your way to coaching, because then, you obviously are not even intending to go there). This will be the year when you will be intimidated to work on your resumé. Spend more time in adding things to it than deleting from it. Find (about) yourself if you haven’t still. Be illustrative of your capabilities, but do write about your abilities anyway. Dig out your torpid talents from your distant past if you have to. Be congruous with those certificates you managed to obtain from the societies. Also, you may have to shave off the beard, or weed out that facial hair. Talking about weed, it’s time to be working towards standing on your own feet; to be taking responsibilities. As the size of your room will shrink, you may have to compromise on your room in your room. And, it would be difficult because CS will still be as popular as it always has been. You may get busy in organising things, or finding things to organise. And all this may drain you off of your energy and equanimity. But always remember, the way some things in the world work is incomprehensible and the reason for it is inexplicable. But, everything will amass into serendipity at the culmination of it, or so I have been told. _Love, The-freaking-out-fourth-year-you_

_Dear supposed-to-be-grown-up-fourth-year-me,_ I hope you develop an eye for taking Susangat as a place to exercise at too. Go for a morning jog, and you’ll have the best time of your day. Try to have a less disorganised routine, and you’ll realise that you did have the time to iron your formals. Oh, and yes, you should have a formal, of your own. Learn to tie a tie. I repeat; it’s important to learn how to do it. Polish your shoes with a brush and not at the back of your pants. Prepare a little for your interviews. I don’t mean they aren’t good but you don’t have to rely on your impromptu gigs every time. You may have to buy two belts for yourself too. Do not let your grades disparage you. Leave that to your friends. You will be there where you are supposed to be sooner or later. And the great thing about suppositions is that they are not rigid. Don’t just plan; take the impending trips with those friends. And always remember, the way some things in the world work is incomprehensible and the reason for it is inexplicable. But everything will amass into serendipity at the culmination of it, or so I have been told. _Love, The-already-missing-MANIT-graduated-you_ _Dear-what-next?-graduated-me,_ Did you feel it? I hope you did. I hope you found the wisdom in the incomprehensible and the reason in the inexplicable. Thank you for holding onto that belief. All the best. _Love, The-creating-a-niche-for-himself-you_
