---
title: The Book That I Read That Night
date: 2018-09-23
categories:
  - blog
featuredImage: images/book-i-read-that-night.jpg
---

It had to happen. The ACL did have to give way someday, sooner rather than later. Twisting and turning on the bed, orienting the body in all possible corners of the room, I was miserable. It was going to be one of those long, disturbing nights. At least everything was following the pattern. I, the starry eyed kid, with reminiscences about my dreams or rather goals, would stare blankly at the fan, trusting the vibe that another day had been washed down the gutter. The culprit-me, obviously! Unable to walk because of the ligament tear, I grimaced, slapped myself only to get up and fall with a tremendous thud. I needed a sink, a reservoir to let go of all my frustrations, anger and discontent. What I found out on the table nearby, a sky-blue coloured hard-bound enigma, changed me, once and for all. I had read it once, in my teenage and I can vouch for the fact that anything meaningful warrants a revisit.

**“The Test of My Life,”** an autobiography of the Indian cricketer Yuvraj Singh, didn’t let me sleep that night, solving every twisted mystery in my mind deftly. I desired tranquility-one that would’ve rationalized my then sorry state of mind. At quarter past mid-night, I didn’t have the legs to complete a quintessential literature, neither did I intend to read any of those engineering notes. The first page, the reading lights and a leg handing like a cantilever; this was the setting for what would eventually turn out as a night difficult to forget.

Before deciding to read any book, I’m always very apprehensive. “Will it leave me in the doldrums, proving to be a revelation, thus questioning my methods of existence?”, I wonder, always. The time had already arrived. Devoid of all the preconceived notions, I was free. The preface, the message dedicated to all the mothers in the very beginning set the tone for an intriguing read. I knew the man, his swagger, his sixes over long-on but I didn’t know his triumphs and tribulations. All this while, I had been feeling short-changed, cursing my life with “Why only me?”, being the ceaseless inner voice bombarding my head. I wasn’t prepared for this rude awakening. The book doesn’t leave one perplexed, it ushers an urge to introspect. I was bed-ridden with a ligament tear, a plummeting CGPA and a lack of motivation to do anything constructive, leave alone studying.

Yuvraj Singh, the stylish left-hander’s childhood was demanding. His obstinate father and failed marriage of his parents had scarred him for life. The majority of us in MANIT, have had better childhood memories than his and yet I cringe, sometimes at the expectations, people(mostly my parents) have from me. I can do away this feeling, can’t I? They are entitled to have expectations, we are entitled to retaliate and if we don’t do so, we might as well be as good as Yuvraj Singh in fulfilling their expectations. Did all of us choose to be engineers, architects? Were we good at anything else? And so I thought, turning overleaf ever so interestedly. The initial portion of the book was already behind me and I had become comfortable with the fact that at least I had been able to choose my field of interest, unlike the southpaw.

The middle portion of the book is all about realising the collective dream of Yuvi and his father. I myself, lying down on that bed for the third consecutive day, had waited eagerly for this part. The left hander’s initial days in the national team, his stop-start test career and the fickle behaviour of ours, the cricket fans weren’t just the only highlights of the intense and gripping description. There was more to ponder over and the perpetually wandering mind did have enough food for thought. As adults in our 20s, we often believe achieving something in terms of monetary success will enhance the status of our well-being. True that, most definitely! But it won’t alone give us a good, sound night’s sleep. There will be instances that even after the attainment of one’s the most elusive goal, there will be a void. Yuvi was successful, he had it all(as one would imagine), yet he didn’t get to celebrate his success with Mum and Dad together. So, that’s how it is-there would always be imperfections, not everything would happen as one’s plan. Yes! We would’ve been in a better place, had we been in those IITs. But then aren’t we supposed to be imperfect? The dots were connecting, as I wondered retrospectively. I am in MANIT, I am a student of Mechanical Engineering and that’s about it. This description cannot be a template for anyone’s introduction. We cannot let ourselves be known only by the things we’ve achieved. I would rather be that unknown guy who is still remembered by a stranger he had met way back in 2015.

It was close to dawn. The small room with wide open windows for continuous whiff of air was quite cool for the month of June. I took a sip from the water bottle, still not letting the flow of thoughts to stop. The portion of the book for which I had bought it in the first instance was finally here. The fight against cancer and the comeback at the Chidambaram Stadium, it was overwhelming even for the reader to see how the saga unfolded. I had goosebumps, I had tears and most importantly, I was thankful. How many times do we have gripes about life, undermining the gift of life, per se? I have been weak on numerous occasions. But that’s how life is, isn’t it? A top level athlete had a rare form of cancer and he didn’t know about it, at all. The chemotherapy, the weight gain and eventual return to elite level of cricket-life’s unpredictable, indeed. So! It’s alright that I haven’t yet achieved whatever I had planned, that I’ve struggled a bit in my engineering life but I’m prepared to wait. **“The Test Of My Life”** has taught me the trivialities of the issues I’ve had with my existence. Placements, internships and what not; these give me less of those sleepless nights these days. There’s more to life than being desperate!
